Adding meeting notes for Editors meeting #45 (#270)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: BiweeklyMeetings/2022-05-24.md

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I mean, we have comments from Matthias, Robert.

**Matthias Benkort**: No, it has been showing a few tweets. I'm not quite sure. I haven't checked, so I'm not sure what the marketplace think of it. But yeah, generally speaking, I do agree with Sebastien, that there is no particular conflict in merging that as a pro CIP, as long as maybe we have a clear path to active, that is perhaps one marketplace or at least one actor, which is interested in adopting it, and something that can be then reflected upon.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  And are we going to reach out the marketplace in order to review this, or how do you want to proceed?

**Matthias Benkort**: So, we could put it as a last check for next time maybe, and comment in the meantime to make sure that the author adds a clear path to active section mentioning... Yeah, so there is probably one marketplace that is going on with that CIP. And also just to have a... Two weeks period of last check and potentially hear from people that if we have it brought to the light.

> **Discord discussion on the PR**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Discord discussion on the PR
```
There are 4 more of these, to change to a subheading to match the last change (https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/commit/baf6c52336623f77efb0f366b788e44766e4ac7c)... including this one 😁

**Matthias Benkort**: Yes, I think both what you said.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. Now I wanted to know how you do that. I guess that is like... As you are in control to changing the proposals from proposed to active. So this would be like a kind of requirement before moving it to active. And this would be in a standby until we have this simulation.

**Matthias Benkort**: Yeah, indeed active, to active or rejected depending on the outcome of the results.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. [inaudible 00:32:04].

**Matthias Benkort**: If the simulation clearly shows that the proposal isn't sound, that it would make the situation worse, then we just don't want to make... Move it as active, but just as rejected.

### Last Check 

### Review 

#### PR242
 [PR242 CIP-0050? | Shelleys Voltaire decentralization update](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/242)

**M. Àngels Jover**:  Okay. So, that were the items we had in triage. And now in review, we have PR242, which is CIP 50 regarding Shelleys Voltaire Decentralization Update. I think that we are going to do a weekly summary on this, if I am correct?

> **Matthias Benkort**: Yes. So I actually spent the whole day looking at the proposal. I'm going through a thread of comments. So I try to provide a summary on the bottom. There has been many, many things been said, but it's mostly also a debate around whether or not the proposal improves the situations in terms of, does it benefit decentralization, and does it benefit actually every users of the ecosystem and not just the big players?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias Benkort**: Yes. So I actually spent the whole day looking at the proposal and going through the thread of comments. I try to provide a summary at the bottom. There has been many, many things been said, but it's mostly also a debate around whether or not the proposal improves the situations in terms of, does it benefit decentralization, and does it benefit actually every users of the ecosystem and not just the big players?
```

> **Matthias Benkort**: So the discussion hasn't really settled on that. And again, this is kind of proposal where we need more evidence or stronger arguments in favor or defavor of the proposal, and something, hopefully this new simulator from the research team could help with. The research team is also aware of that proposal. I've had a discussion with IOG also on this one. He also mentioned that it was quite close to how he works and incentives works on Tezos currently, and that it has improved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias Benkort**: So the discussion hasn't really settled on that. And again, this is the kind of proposal where we need more evidence or stronger arguments in favor or disfavor of the proposal, and something, hopefully this new simulator from the research team could help with. The research team is also aware of that proposal. I've had a discussion with Aggelos also on this one. He also mentioned that it was quite close to how incentives works on Tezos currently, upon which Cardano has improved.
```

> **Matthias Benkort**: They had analyzed in the past, and that they had rejected or iterated upon in the current design that is used in Cardano. He pointed out a blog post he wrote two years ago on the topic, which we'll go over the different designs that you can use for incentive and rewards, and why this proposed design has issues and works actually worse than the current mechanism. Which is also one point being made during... By other people in this whole thread of comments, which is that it's also not clearly established that the current mechanism is worse than the proposal here. And that possibly with a different set of parameters, we could also alleviate some of the issues that are being brought out or motivating this [inaudible 00:35:10].So that's a bit from the summary of the discussions on that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias Benkort**: They had analyzed in the past, and that they had rejected or iterated upon in the current design that is used in Cardano. He pointed out a blog post he wrote two years ago on the topic, which goes over the different designs that you can use for incentive and rewards, and why this proposed design has issues and works actually worse than the current mechanism. Which is also one point being made during... By other people in this whole thread of comments, which is that it's also not clearly established that the current mechanism is worse than the proposal here. And that possibly with a different set of parameters, we could also alleviate some of the issues that are being brought out or motivating this proposal. So that's a bit from the summary of the discussions on that.
```

> **Matthias Benkort**: I also think that there are many topics in discuss itself within this... In that proposal, and that perhaps it could be worse to split it in multiple smaller proposals. There is one which is the change of the reworked formula, which in itself is I think the main proposal. But then there are also other topics like the change or reduction of the value of K. There is a... This key effective measure that is describing the industry proposal. It has an expectation that has also a definition that is being debated. So just for the sake of making the debate a bit more fluid and having... Or debate maybe in different rooms, if you want, I would be in favor of splitting this proposal into smaller ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Matthias Benkort**: I also think that there are many topics in discuss itself within this... In that proposal, and that perhaps it could be worse to split it in multiple smaller proposals. There is one which is the change of the reworked formula, which in itself is I think the main proposal. But then there are also other topics like the change or reduction of the value of K. There is a... This k-effective measure that is describing the effectiveness of the proposal. It has an interpretation that has also a definition that is being debated. So just for the sake of making the debate a bit more fluid or debate maybe in different rooms, if you want, I would be in favor of splitting this proposal into smaller ones.
```

**M. Àngels Jover**:  I had a little bit of trouble understanding.

**Matthias Benkort**: [inaudible 00:44:48] to the chat. So Robert was asking, what do we do with the chat basically, regarding the minutes meeting? I think we should just include them in some form or another, because there has been relevant stuff being said in the chat, and we don't bring everyone on vocal anyway. So, that's important.

**Robert Phair**: Okay. Well, you can edit what I've said, because a lot of it is, "Help, I'm being suppressed." So you can turn that down a little bit. I did make some comments about two of the other proposals, but that's enough. We can keep moving on. Are you still hearing any noise that you were noticing through the web app?

**M. Àngels Jover**:  It's still noisy and it's difficult to understand you, because it gets... I mean the words... Well, nevermind. It is difficult.

**Robert Phair**: [inaudible 00:45:42]? Okay.

**M. Àngels Jover**:  What I will do is check and see how we can include this, because I think that what you mentioned is really interesting. So I will check how to include the comments on the meeting notes.

> 
> **Robert Phair**: Is this a better option than going down? Does that make a difference at all?
> 
> **M. Àngels Jover**:  Not really.
> 
> **Matthias Benkort**: Slightly, but it's still not the best.
> 
> **Robert Phair**: Okay. This is probably the best I can do. So I'll give a little background largely within the figures, but obviously that's... Maria doesn't think that's as bad. This is it. I think we got... It's maybe a different process... Audio processing than Crowdcast. I'll try to test it. If anyone wants to call me privately, I'll be able to test it with them. But until then, there's nothing I can do. So I'll mute myself again, and just insert the text comments when I have something to say.
> 
> **M. Àngels Jover**:  No problem. If you want Robert, we can later, after this meeting or maybe another day, we can do some testing together.
> 
> **Robert Phair**: Sure. Yeah, anytime, just let me know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The dialogue was resolved before this section & only incidental to the mic problem & not the meeting itself.  Thanks again @mangelsjover for taking the time after the meeting to test my audio.
